src/posts/aerwyrm/privatecreationvspublicexpression.mdx, before:

---
title: Private Creation vs Public Expression.
slug: private-creation-vs-public-expression
date: 2025-07-16
show: true
image: 
blurb: What if creating didn’t need an audience to matter? Soapbox is a platform for makers who value meaning over metrics
featured: true
---
Recently I've noticed that more often than not, sharing is the last step in creating something. Many of the platform used today repeat a similar mantra, *Perform, Publish, Post*, as if it isn't complete until someone validates it.  It begs the question, "Why create art if not for an audience?". 

Is art incomplete without being seen? Or is the act of making something its own reward? This is something that any one who has ever put work into creating some has asked themselves in some shape or form.  Some may argue that art is much like a asynchronous conversation, not a monologue. Others believe that the process or feeling that it offers the creator is why art exists.

For a long time, I struggled with creating things just for the sake of it especially when it came to coding. I had ideas I cared about, things I wanted to build for myself or for fun, but I’d often shut them down before I even started. Why?

Because I didn’t think anyone would care.  
Because I didn’t think it would “look good” to a recruiter.  
Because I thought if it wasn’t part of some technical checklist or job-friendly portfolio, it wasn’t worth the time.

And that mindset killed the spark.

I wasn’t building apps anymore. I was building job applications. I’d scroll past my own ideas and ask myself, _“Would this make me more hireable?”_ instead of _“Would this make me excited?”_

My newest project, Soapbox was built to break out of that. 
Soapbox is a creative platform built on a simple idea: your voice matters, even if the crowd is quiet. It’s a space where artists, developers, and thinkers can share work, not for likes or algorithms, but for meaning. No feeds, no followers. Just your projects and the people who choose to watch. You own your data, you shape your audience, and you create on your terms.

It’s a reminder that your ideas matter even if no one claps right away. That making something you care about is valid even if it’s messy, unfinished, or unoptimized because that kind of work speaks for itself, even if no one’s listening yet.

Commit message:

Update blurb and project description in Private Creation vs Public Expression post

src/posts/aerwyrm/privatecreationvspublicexpression.mdx, after:

---
title: Private Creation vs Public Expression.
slug: private-creation-vs-public-expression
date: 2025-07-16
show: true
image: 
blurb: What if creating didn’t need an audience to matter?
featured: true
---
Recently I've noticed that more often than not, sharing is the last step in creating something. Many of the platform used today repeat a similar mantra, *Perform, Publish, Post*, as if it isn't complete until someone validates it.  It begs the question, "Why create art if not for an audience?". 

Is art incomplete without being seen? Or is the act of making something its own reward? This is something that any one who has ever put work into creating some has asked themselves in some shape or form.  Some may argue that art is much like a asynchronous conversation, not a monologue. Others believe that the process or feeling that it offers the creator is why art exists.

For a long time, I struggled with creating things just for the sake of it especially when it came to coding. I had ideas I cared about, things I wanted to build for myself or for fun, but I’d often shut them down before I even started. Why?

Because I didn’t think anyone would care.  
Because I didn’t think it would “look good” to a recruiter.  
Because I thought if it wasn’t part of some technical checklist or job-friendly portfolio, it wasn’t worth the time.

And that mindset killed the spark.

I wasn’t building apps anymore. I was building job applications. I’d scroll past my own ideas and ask myself, _“Would this make me more hireable?”_ instead of _“Would this make me excited?”_

So I started Aerwyrm.

Aerwyrm is my personal notebook, a living record of my journey into audio software development. Right now, I’m diving deep into how synthesizers work so I can learn the tools and theory needed to build a web-based synthesis course using React and Tone.js.

There’s no launch date. Just curiosity.

Unfinished ideas are still worth capturing, and learning and documenting for myself can be just as meaningful as publishing a polished product.
